#labels Featured
= Quick Start Guide for Software Installers =

This page collects together useful links for installing the operations software. There are similar guides for software [UsersQuickStart users] and [DevelopersQuickStart developers].

== Preparing to Install ==

This software is written mostly in python (there is also some javascript that only web clients run) and so should be widely portable. The code has been tested on the [Platforms following platforms].

  # Check if your platform has the [RequiredEnvironment required software environment] and upgrade or install packages if necessary.
  # Decide which [ReleaseNotes software release] you will install.
  # Obtain a [Downloading copy of the software].

== Building the Software ==

There is nothing that requires compiling or linking in the software but some files are deliberately not stored in the code repository since they can be generated from other files already in the repository. The steps required to reconstruct these files are coordinated by the [RequiredEnvironment required] SConstruct build program.

  # Build the python descriptions of the [TechnologyChoices protocol buffers] (this step is *required*).
  # Build the web pages that document the design (this step is optional).
  # Build the source code documentation web pages (this step is optional).

== Testing your Installation ==

  # Running [UnitTests automatic unit tests].
  # Running [OtherTests non-automated tests].
  # [Running Running the operations software].