#labels Featured
= Configuration Files =

Runtime configuration is stored in files with the extension ".ini" in the standard and simple [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INI_file INI file format].

Files are searched in the following order:
  # tops.core: config.ini
  # tops._project_: config.ini
  # _file specified on the [Running start command line] with the --config option_
_project_ is, for example, sdss3. There is no error if a file is missing.

An INI file is organized into named sections, and specifies parameters for each section. If a section parameter appears in more than one file, the last value found (according to the search order above) will be used.

The order of sections within an INI file is not important and neither is the order of parameters within a section (unless a parameter is repeated within the same file and section which should not be the case).

= Configuration Parameters =

A named section with a _service_ parameter identifies a process that can be started to provide a runtime service. The value of the _service_ parameter is the python module path of the service main entry point. The [Running start program] scans through the configuration files to determine the available services and will start them in increasing order of their _launch_order_ parameter. Set the _enable_ parameter to something other than _True_ to prevent a service being started.

The following values are considered _True_ / _False_ for boolean parameters (case is ignored):
  * 1 / 0
  * yes / no
  * true / false
  * on / off
All other values will generate a run-time error.

== Core Services ==

The core logging and archiving servers use file-based logging output. The _logfile_ parameter of the _logger_ and _archiver_ sections determines where this output will be stored. Use the special value _stdout_ to print all logging output directly to the shell. Logfiles are automatically rotated when they exceed 1Mbyte in size. In case _logfile_ refers to a non-existent directory, the necessary path will be created automatically.

The following parameters are also shared between the logging and archiving core services:
  * _unix_addr_: UNIX socket address that the server will listen and local clients will connect to. The corresponding filesystem path will be created if necessary.
  * _tcp_port_: TCP port number that the server will listen to and remote clients will connect to.
  * _tcp_host_: TCP host name that remote clients will connect to.
  * _http_port_: TCP port that the service's web server will listen to.
  * _web_title_: Ttitle of this service's monitoring web page.

== SDSS-3 Services ==

...